src/build_log/chapter_6.md, before:

# Chapter 6 - Fuselage Assembly

Rejoice! At the end of this, you'll actually have something to show to people instead of just mostly flat panels.

Now that the fuselage [bulkheads](chapter_4.md) and [sides](chapter_5.md) have been built, it's time to put them together.

Current status (Mid December, 2022): Just barely started.

## Fuselage Side Assembly

I decided to assemble my fuselage upside-down, as suggested and made popular by [Wayne Hicks](https://ez.canardaircraft.com/www.ez.org/pages/waynehicks/chapter_06.html).

I struggled a lot with building the platform to do the assembly on. It's incredibly important that this platform be level and square and I had extreme difficulty figuring out a wood structure that would suffice. My existing workbenches, which worked fine for holding the fuselage form jigs, would not work for this. I decided to purchase some aluminum extrusion and construct a work surface with that. The extrusion is machined to much higher tolerances than what I can get for wood. While I waited for the aluminum to arrive, I worked on the center keel.

## Center Keel and Seatback Brace

The center keel adds strength to the fuselage, and contains the hot air duct (likely unused for me, but that duct is still a structural component, so I'm keeping it). It's the base of the center console and is part of the mounting point for the safety harnesses. Additionally, the fuel selector valve nominally in the center keel, but I don't need to install that, so I'm not going to work on that.

You start the center keel by first microing and glassing foam, then cutting it out. I marked the shapes in black sharpie on the foam, then I micro'd and glassed it. The triangular pieces are received 2 layers of BID, any orientation. I chose diagonal with respect to the base. The rectangular pieces received 2 layers of UNI, oriented along the length of the piece.

## The Fuselage Bottom

With the sides assembled, now it's time to install a floor.

## Log

- 2022-12-14: Started work.
- 2022-12-15 through 2022-12-16: Prepared shop for fuselage assembly - tore down the fuselage forms jig - building platform to assemble fuselage on.
- 2022-12-17: Ordered parts for constructing aluminum workbench, started work on the center keel.
- 2022-12-18: Glassed inside fiberglass parts of the center keel.

Commit message:

Finally unblocked and working on the fuselage again

src/build_log/chapter_6.md, after:

# Chapter 6 - Fuselage Assembly

Rejoice! At the end of this, you'll actually have something to show to people instead of just mostly flat panels.

Now that the fuselage [bulkheads](chapter_4.md) and [sides](chapter_5.md) have been built, it's time to put them together.

Current status (Mid December, 2022): Just barely started.

## Fuselage Side Assembly

I decided to assemble my fuselage upside-down, as suggested and made popular by [Wayne Hicks](https://ez.canardaircraft.com/www.ez.org/pages/waynehicks/chapter_06.html).

I struggled a lot with building the platform to do the assembly on. It's incredibly important that this platform be level and square and I had extreme difficulty figuring out a wood structure that would suffice. My existing workbenches, which worked fine for holding the fuselage form jigs, would not work for this. I decided to purchase some T-slot aluminum extrusion and construct a work surface with that. The extrusion is machined to much higher tolerances than what I can do for wood. Additionally, for the fuselage assembly, I want to have the surface be low to the ground - my existing tables are not height-adjustable. The T-slot aluminum, while difficult to adjust the height (I can't do it with any load or surface on it), is at least possible to lower.

Once the table frame was put together & leveled, I installed the table tops. I re-used the tops from my existing tables. They're flat enough for this work - my real issue is that leveling 5 tables is incredibly hard to do. With the tops installed, including a space for the instrument panel, I used a laser level to draw a centerline across the entire table. I then drew lines marking where each bulkhead would be installed. I screwed in a piece of wood at the location where the top of the front seatback will be. Finally, I clamped a piece of wood to mark where the instrument panel should be installed.

![Fuselage assembly table](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_6/table_frame.jpg)

With the table put together and set to the desired height, I worked on attaching the temporary firewall. First, though, I added some wood beams to stiffen it and help it keep square. I attached it to the tabletop frame using 2 m5 bolts into T-slot nuts, then screwed in a brace to keep it square with the tabletop. Once it was sufficiently attached, I tried slotting in the fuselage sides. As expected, these didn't fit. I found that a utility knife worked well to help carve out extra space from the thin and light wood I used for the temporary firewall.

Once I got both fuselage slides fully slotted in, I worked on the other end. I marked the centerline of F-22, lined that up with the centerline on the table. This allowed me to line up F-22 with the end of the fuselage sides. I found I needed to trim off material from forward end of the fuselage sides, which I did now. With that done, I drilled holes for screws to aid with re-assembling F-22, and also drew lines to mark where the fuselage sides end up when F-22 will be installed.

![Trial Assembly with sides slotted in to the firewall, and F-22 lined up with the fuselage sides](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_6/trial_assembly_aft_and_forward.jpg)

With the forward ends of the fuselage sides taken care of, I worked on getting the front seatback in place. This required me to trim some additional material from the front seatback to get it to fit. Which was disappointing, but not surprising.

## Center Keel and Seatback Brace

The center keel adds strength to the fuselage, and contains the hot air duct (likely unused for me, but that duct is still a structural component, so I'm keeping it). It's the base of the center console and is part of the mounting point for the safety harnesses. Additionally, the fuel selector valve nominally in the center keel, but I don't need to install that, so I'm not going to work on that.

You start the center keel by first microing and glassing foam, then cutting it out. I marked the shapes in black sharpie on the foam, then I micro'd and glassed it. The triangular pieces are received 2 layers of BID, any orientation. I chose diagonal with respect to the base. The rectangular pieces received 2 layers of UNI, oriented along the length of the piece.

## The Fuselage Bottom

With the sides assembled, now it's time to install a floor.

## Log

- 2022-12-14: Started work.
- 2022-12-15 through 2022-12-16: Prepared shop for fuselage assembly - tore down the fuselage forms jig - building platform to assemble fuselage on.
- 2022-12-17: Ordered parts for constructing aluminum workbench, started work on the center keel.
- 2022-12-18: Glassed inside fiberglass parts of the center keel.
- 2023-01-08: Attached temporary firewall to assembly table. Trimmed temporary firewall to allow fuselage sides to slot in. Trimmed forward ends of fuselage sides to allow correct positioning of F-22. Installed screw holes for F-22. Started work fitting the front seatback in to the trial assembly.
