src/build_log/chapter_4.md, before:

# Chapter 4 - Bulkheads, Instrument Panel, Front Seatback and Temporary Firewall

Chapter 4 starts off fairly simple - you're mostly working with flat things that are all internal to the aircraft. Some curves, but no complex curves.

## Front Seatback

The front seatback is very simple - cut down a slab of 0.75" thick foam, shape two of the edges to be 45°, and glass it. Following the advice of other builders, I used a tablesaw to make those cuts. You can see the result below.

![Angle shot of the entire foam slab prior to glassing](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_initial_1.jpg)
![Closeup of the 45 degree edge on the foam slab prior to glassing](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_initial_2.jpg)

A few days later, I did the next step, which is to add micro and UNI fiberglass to one side. I interpreted "micro" in this case to be wet micro, not micro slurry. We'll see how it turns out.

I cut out 2 lengths (approximately 42-45 inches) of full-width UNI and laid them out. I had to cut and rearrange the glass while laying it out, and there was some excess, but this worked well. Instead of using the polyester sheet as peel ply, like I had [previously]({{#path_for Chapter 3 - Education and Practice Layups}}), I used plastic sheeting. We'll see how it turns out.

![Angle shot of the front seatback after the first side is glassed](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_first_glassing.jpg)

## F-28 Bulkhead

The F-28 Bulkhead is a relatively small piece. In the future, I hope to build a CNC router to handle cutting foam for me. In the now, I'm cutting manually using a utility knife and a Fein tool.

Currently, I have the F-28 bulkhead cut, but have not glassed it. I don't have a good solution to handling cold temperatures in my workshop yet. So I'm currently electing to cut as much foam as I can, planning to line up a bunch of pieces to fiberglass work as soon as it warms up enough for epoxy to set right.

## F-22 Bulkhead

The F-28 Bulkhead is the first piece that I need to build in pieces, then epoxy together. Similar to the F-28 bulkhead, I cut this out of clark foam using a utility knife and a Fein tool, and then sanding for a more precise finish.

Similarly to the F-28 bulkhead, this currently is cut in pieces, and the pieces epoxied together using 5-minute epoxy. Once the temperature warms up and I can maintain at least 70℉ with a heater, I will glass it.

## Instrument Panel

The Instrument Panel is roughly the same size as the F-22 bulkhead. It's current state is also foam pieces, epoxied together with 5-minute epoxy. Along with the other bulkheads, I have not yet glassed it.

Additionally, I need to cut out and prepare the stiffeners and cable channels for the instrument panel.

## Landing Gear Bulkheads

Along with the other bulkheads, the landing gear bulkheads have had their foam parts cut out and epoxied together with 5-minute epoxy. I have not yet created the quarter-inch fiberglass hardpoints, nor have I glassed the bulkheads.

## Firewall

I have done some work to start on the temporary firewall - it's cut down to roughly the dimensions I want it to be - but that's it. I haven't started on the actual firewall yet.

Commit message:

More notes on current status

src/build_log/chapter_4.md, after:

# Chapter 4 - Bulkheads, Instrument Panel, Front Seatback and Temporary Firewall

Chapter 4 starts off fairly simple - you're working entirely with flat shapes that are all internal to the aircraft. The only curves are the edges.

Current status (Late March, 2022): Fiberglass work is blocked on temperature. My workspace does not yet have dedicated heating (or cooling), meaning I have to use space heaters to warm the place. Even with space heaters, I can not maintain a reasonable temperature in my workshop to allow for proper epoxy curing. I am on a waitlist to get a minisplit system installed in my workshop so that this won't be an issue going forward.

## Front Seatback

The front seatback is very simple - cut down a slab of 0.75" thick foam, shape two of the edges to be 45°, and glass it. Following the advice of other builders, I used a tablesaw to make those cuts. You can see the result below.

![Angle shot of the entire foam slab prior to glassing](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_initial_1.jpg)
![Closeup of the 45 degree edge on the foam slab prior to glassing](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_initial_2.jpg)

A few days later, I did the next step, which is to add micro and UNI fiberglass to one side. I interpreted "micro" in this case to be wet micro, not micro slurry. We'll see how it turns out.

I cut out 2 lengths (approximately 42-45 inches) of full-width UNI and laid them out. I had to cut and rearrange the glass while laying it out, and there was some excess, but this worked well. Instead of using the polyester sheet as peel ply, like I had [previously]({{#path_for Chapter 3 - Education and Practice Layups}}), I used plastic sheeting. We'll see how it turns out.

![Angle shot of the front seatback after the first side is glassed](/assets/images/build_log/chapter_4/front_seatback_first_glassing.jpg)

It turned out fine. I did go back to using polyester peel ply for the aft side of the front seatback. Which also turned out fine and was relatively easy to pull out.

I identified a number of inconsistencies in the epoxy cure on both sides, and will be drilling holes and injecting epoxy into them once it warms up and I'm sure the injected epoxy will correctly cure.

## F-28 Bulkhead

The F-28 Bulkhead is a relatively small piece. In the future, I hope to build a CNC router to handle cutting foam for me. In the now, I'm cutting manually using a utility knife and a Fein tool.

Currently, I have the F-28 bulkhead cut, but have not glassed it. I don't have a good solution to handling cold temperatures in my workshop yet. So I'm currently electing to cut as much foam as I can, planning to line up a bunch of pieces to fiberglass work as soon as it warms up enough for epoxy to set right.

## F-22 Bulkhead

The F-28 Bulkhead is the first piece that I need to build in pieces, then epoxy together. Similar to the F-28 bulkhead, I cut this out of clark foam using a utility knife and a Fein tool, and then sanding for a more precise finish.

Similarly to the F-28 bulkhead, this currently is cut in pieces, and the pieces epoxied together using 5-minute epoxy. Once the temperature warms up and I can maintain at least 70℉ with a heater, I will glass it.

## Instrument Panel

The Instrument Panel is roughly the same size as the F-22 bulkhead. It's current state is also foam pieces, epoxied together with 5-minute epoxy. Along with the other bulkheads, I have not yet glassed it.

Additionally, I need to cut out and prepare the stiffeners and cable channels for the instrument panel.

## Landing Gear Bulkheads

Along with the other bulkheads, the landing gear bulkheads have had their foam parts cut out and epoxied together with 5-minute epoxy. I have not yet created the quarter-inch fiberglass hardpoints, nor have I glassed the bulkheads.

## Firewall

I have done some work to start on the temporary firewall - it's cut down to roughly the dimensions I want it to be - but that's it. I haven't started on the actual firewall yet.
